There is some joke about a professor who's teaching Calculus 1 for the first time. They ask their department head what they should teach and are told that the course covers limits, derivatives, and integrals. 
They come back the next day to their department head and say "That was great! What should the next lecture be on?" 

This is what I am going to attempt to do here in this first post about Linear Algebra. I want to give the "30,000 foot view" or the big picture on the subject and convey why it is so ubiquitous in mathematics and science.
Let me try and explain what value I hope to provide in this article. Let me start by sayting that I believe (let me emphasizer my opinion here) that there are broadly three large groups of consumers of Linear Algebra.

The first is the programmer or scientist who has never actually taken a course on the subject but has read about how important it is online and knows that it is the mathematics behind their line of best fit in excel or their neural network they have built using python libraries that someone else has built.

The second is the consumer of the "computational" Linear Algebra course where they performed countless Gauss Jordan Elimination computation on matrices and learned about Singular Value Decomposition but maybe couldn't tell you what the axioms of a vector space are exactly.
This is probably also the group who wrote the python libraries which the first group uses.

The last is the math major who could prove "X Theorem" but gets hung up on whether every vector space has basis, and if they were presented with a 4x4 matrix they would almost certainly make a mistake in calculating its determinant with pencil and paper.

I hope that my descriptions have complimented and teased each group accordingly. My goal here is to unite everyone. I want to show the blind user that the subject is not so unapproachable. I want to show the computational expert that it is not so abstract. And I want to show the Theorem/Proof expert that they are capable of applying their abstractions.
