## What The Hell Is Water?


#### Who Am I?
My name is Adam. I'm originally from Utah and I migrated to Montana for Grad School where I earned a Ph.D. in Mathematics. I enjoy skiing, skateboarding, running (when my body allows it), walking, and karaoke. I like coffee, cats, dogs, and growing vegetables. I like working on puzzles, tinkering around on a mandolin, fixing my old Subaru, and talking with strangers. I like to understand how things work and I like to build and create new things.  

#### What Am I Doing Here?
I'm going to write about things that interest me and things which I am currently learning about. In an effort to be consistent I have set the following schedule for posting:

Wednesdays - Write about something I personally find interesting/exciting which I'm already fairly familiar with. Wednesday posts will usually involve topics in mathematics, as this is what I know the most about. However, I hope to encorporate some of my other interests and make theses blog entries more entertaining than a textbook or a lecture.

Saturday - Write about something I am currently learning. The topics of these posts will be in the category of Data Science, Machine Learning, Probability/Statistics, and Programming.

#### Why Am I Doing It?
Well I've found it to be important for me to do something, anything at all! Here are some of my reasons:
* It will give me an opportunity to engage with mathematics despite leaving the _'Ivory Tower'_.
* I hope to improve my writing and communication skills and this seems like a good way to do it. 
* This is a good way to record or journal what I was thinking about and refresh concepts I learned a long time ago.
* In the instance that someone wants to employ me, but they are unsure of what my knowledge/skills are hopefully they can get some idea of what I know and what I can do. 


