## Linear Regression and Least Squares

This will be my first foray into writing about data science and as such I will focus more on the mathematical side of things. Luckily, there are plenty of other people
writing about linear regression so a reader interested in a more sophisticated discussion or more of an applied perspective has many other options. If you are familiar with R, 
[this](http://r-statistics.co/Linear-Regression.html) article provides a lot more details and works through an example (it also isn't plagued with adds.)

#### Linear Regression

Let's discuss one of the most basic tools in a data scientists kit, which is linear regression. The idea is that given a bunch of data points 

(x_1, y_1), (x_2, y_2), ... 

where the x_i's are explanatory/predictor/independent variables and the y_i's are response/dependent variables can we find a linear equation
f(x) = mx + b which can be used to predict responses given new data. A common first example is square footage being an explanatory variable to home price.

Consider weekly milage (maybe average weekly milage in a training block) as an explanatory variable to a marathon finishing time. It wouldn't seem unreasonable that increasing your weekly milage would decrease your
marathon finishing time and using linear regression to model could help a coach create a training plan to help meet their athletes goals. However, it's important to 
understand the context of the underlying data. If your data includes information for both casual runners and elite athletes your regression might not be accurate because
increasing weekly milage for a casual runner and an elite athlete will effect their finishing time in different ways. Athletes like [Eliud Kipchoge](https://worldathletics.org/athletes/kenya/eliud-kipchoge-14208194) are looking to cut seconds off of their 
marathon time while a casual runner could decrease their finishing time by minutes/hours by improving their training. This is all to say that the relationship between weekly mileage and 
finishing time is not perfectly linear (few real world examples are) but if we are careful we still might be able to use linear regression. For instance, if we filtered
our data set into causual/amateur/elite categories we could apply linear regression to each subset and achieve more accurate results. 


#### Getting Started With Linear Regression
talk about how you could do this in python and excel... 

#### The Mathematical Mechanics

Now it's not really necessary to understand how a tool works in order to use it. 
For instance, many of us use some sort of machine every day where we don't have a great understanding of how it works such as a cell phone or a dishwasher.
But for anyone who is curious, I'd like to breifly explain how programs such as excel come up with a regression line because I believe it hits on some really nice
topics in linear algebra and calculus.

...

