## The Symmetries of Skateboarding


#### Abstract Algebra (for all)

I took my first abstract algebra course my 4th year of college and I loved it. It was the first class where I learned that you can add and multiply things other than numbers and I thought that was incredible.
I think it's a shame that I or anyone else would have to wait so long to be exposed such beautiful math. I don't think it's necessary to wait that long at all, teenagers or even younger kids could learn this stuff.
My goal with this short article is to say something about abstract algebra that a nonmathematician might find interesting and maybe inspire someone to dive a little deeper into the subject. 

A first course on abstract algebra usually begins by studying groups. I think upon seeing the definition of a group [(a set with a binary operation with the following axioms)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Group_(mathematics)) you are left wondering why anyone would care. 
The response you will get is that groups demonstrate the symmetries of some object. Infact, one introductory text on the subject
is called ["The Symmetries of Things."](https://www.maa.org/publications/maa-reviews/the-symmetries-of-things) 


This motto is typically first demonstrated by studying the ['dihedral groups'](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dihedral_group) which exhibit the symmetries of a regular polygons. You still might not be convinced that this is very
important because you may not care about polygons that much. Which I think is totally fair.
Instead, I want to discuss the symmetries of something I think is more fun than a polygon, and that is different ways you can ride on a skateboard.


#### Skate Stance Terminonlogy (for the nonskater)

Let's start by discussing the possible ways there are to stand on a skateboard. First, to get this out of the way, a skater is 'regular' if the most comfortable way to ride is to have their left foot in front
and to push with their right foot in the back. If it's most comfortable to stand with your right foot in front and push with your left foot in the back you are referred to as 'goofy' which is not an insult, it's just your stance.
(I'm not entertaing 'mongo' as a valid stance.) Whether you are regular or goofy is analagous to being right or left handed.
Whether you are regular or goofy this will be your default stance while skating and as such I'll refer to this as your 'normal' stance, which is not standard terminology.

Now if you are regular and try to ride in the goofy stance you will notice it is a lot harder. Again, try to think about writing with your left hand if you are right handed.
Performing a trick (or just riding) in this less comfortable stance is refered to as 'switch.' 

Another way to change your stance is instead of riding in the direction of your front foot, ride in the direction of your back foot. This is called riding 'Fakie'.
So what we've discussed so far is that there are two basic ways you can change your expereince skating: Switching your normal stance from regular to goofy or vice-versa and swithcing your direction of travel.
Notice for both of these actions, doing the same action twice results in riding normally.

#### The Group of Skate Stances 

So far we've counted 3 traditional ways of riding on a skateboard. Can we combine them to make a new stance? For instance what would it be like to ride Fakie and Switch?
If we do these operations one at a time (in either order) we would end up in a stance similar to our normal stance, but insteand of having our front foot in the middle of the board
and back foot on the tail we would have our front foot on the nose and back foot in the middle of the board.

This stance is called 'nollie' so (switch + fakie) = nollie and now we're doing arithmetic with skateboard stances! Now every skater knows that these are the only four possible stances.
This comes down to the fact that (fakie + fakie) = normal and (switch + switch) = normal.

#### Some Math Notation (for the skaters)

If any reader who has taken an abstract algebra course has made it this far they might have recognized this group as the Klein four-group. Let's try to attach some mathematical notation
to what we have done. Let's label the normal stance with the number 1 and the switch stance with the number -1. Consider the simple fact that $(-1)*(-1) = 1$ which looks kind of like
(switch + switch) = normal. The same thing can be said labeling the fakie stance with -1. We can take a list or 'tuple' with two coordinates either labeled by a 1 or -1 where the first coordinate
represents 'switchness' and the second coordinate represents 'fakieness.'

Then we have the following bijection:

| Math Notation | Skate Terminology |
----------------|-------------------|
|    (1, 1)     |     normal        | 
|    (-1, 1)    |     switch        |
|    (1, -1)    |     fakie         |
|    (-1, -1)   |     nollie        |

We can then combine stances by simply multiplying the numbers coordinatewise. This essentially gives you a multiplication table for skateboard stances.

#### Conclusion
I hope that this little article provided something to both the skater and the nonskater. To the skater I hope you get a little joy knowing about the symmetries involved in 
the amazing activity you take part in. Also, if anyone ever gives you a hard time for not doing something 'serious' you can tell them that there is some some serious abstract algebra
underlying skating. To the nonskater, I hope you enjoyed seeing a connection between mathematics and skating and if you ever hear an olympic commentator say "switch nollie" that you know that they really should be saying fakie. Lastly, there is a lot more interesting stuff to say about group theory and skating. This [paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2108.06307.pdf) shows that 'up to homotopy' there are only four flatground tricks you can perform on a skateboard.





